# Cardano Treasury DeFi Liquidity Budget

## Abstract

The goal of this proposal is to increase liquidity on Cardano, specifically by supporting stablecoin liquidity. 50,000,000 ADA is requested to increase the liquidity in DeFi protocols over 12 months (the budget period). This proposal is unique from other budgets because it is not intended to spend the budget funds, and is required to be fully self sustaining by the end of the budget period. The funds can be returned back to the treasury through use of an on chain Info Action. The funds are managed by a 7 person administrating committee composed of publicly identified individuals who are part of multi-signature (multisig) wallet from which liquidity will be managed. Success of the project will be indicated by completion of milestones and key performance indicators. Revenue from the deployed liquidity will compound in the protocols, with a portion sent back to the treasury creating a source of revenue for the treasury.

## Motivation

### High Level Overview

* **Amount** - The Cardano treasury should dedicate 3.33% of treasury funds (50 million ada) to purchasing fiat backed stablecoins, spread out over 12 monthly purchases. The committee should work to mitigate the potential price impact of converting ADA to fiat to mint as stable coins over the 12 month period. Note that up to 30% of funds may be held in ADA to pair with ADA/Stablecoin pairs on DEXs and 10% may be held in non-fiat backed stablecoins, which will help to alleviate price impact concerns.
* **Administration** - A GOVERNANCE protocol has been created and will be the governing principles of the 7 person administrating committee. A multisig wallet (4 of 7 signature validation) will be used to hold and deploy funds to protocols. The administrating committee will be responsible for working with stablecoin issuers to convert ADA to fiat backed stablecoins and deploying liquidity. A specific focus of the administrating committee will be analyzing approaches of deploying ADA to stablecoins in a way that minimizes ADA price impact.
* **Revenue** - Deployed funds will generate revenue according to the interest and fees defined by the protocols fees are disbursed to. Each month the total interest generated by the deployed liquidity will be calculated and 15% of total interest from protocols will be withdrawn from the respective protocols and sent back to the treasury, while the remaining 85% of accumulated interest will compound in the protocol (e.g. analagous but not identical to compounding interest). ADA held by the committee that is not deployed will not be staked according to constitutional requirements (see Rationale for more information).
* **Deployment** - DeFi protocols may apply to be recipients of liquidity, and the administrating committee will review and disburse funds to protocols that have the best plans for growth and returns back to the treasury. A maximum of 2 or 3 protocols may be used per DeFi category to help minimize fragmentation. Applicants should make a strong case for the use of their protocol, including a a description of historical success, security, dedicated support for handling issues, and features of the protocol that will maximize the value to the Cardano treasury if liquidity is deployed to the protocol. New protocols will not be excluded for having limited history, but must make a strong case in other areas of the application.
* **Strategy** - The committee will deploy funds on a monthly basis with consideration for approaches that minimize ADA price impact and fees. A specific focus should be on deployment of liquidity that can be "passively" managed, meaning frequent adjustements are not needed. The focus on passive management is to help ease the management strategy and reduce the fees incurred by managing liquidity. This may be changed in the future by an on chain Info Action.
* **Audits and Transparency** - The committee is responsible for creating a monthly report to describe the ADA held in reserve, the funds deployed to protocols, and all fees and other costs associated with managing the treasury. The committee may use part of the monthly budget in the first year to develop a dashboard to provide live updates of the stablecoin reserve for the Cardano community.
* **Costs** - Each member of the committee will be compensated $1,000/month in the fiat backed stablecoin of their choice ($7,000/month total for all committee members). During the budget period, the stablecoin liquidity budget will cover the costs of minting fiat backed stables, deployment of liquidity to protocols, and rebalancing if needed. After the budget period, costs must be less than revenue generated by the deployed liquidity. The committe will also use some funds to perform KYB/KYC of 3rd parties as needed as well as cover costs for creation of a legal entity to house the fund. Total costs per month should be capped at $50,000/month over the 12 month period, and beyond the budget period costs must be less than revenue generated by deployed liquidity with excess costs being deducted from committee stipends.
* **Organization** - Part of the initial budget will be used to investigate proper incorporation of a legal entity to house the funds being managed for this budget. Every reasonable attempt should be made to house the fund in a non-profit to maximize tax benefits as well as provide future opportunities for organizations to donate to the fund.
* **Revisions** - Since this fund may exist in perpetuity, it is important to have a mechanism for modification up to and including returning all funds back to the treasury. To this end, we have established a GOVERNANCE protocol that all members of the committee MUST abide by for the duration of this budget and beyond. The protocol includes the ability of ANY member of the Cardano community to submit an Info Action to modify the GOVERNANCE protocol, and the committee is obligated update and abide by the new protocol if the Info Action passes. This allows the community to modify the directive of the community up to and including adding and removing members of the committee, monthly budget limits, committee pay, and returning some or all of funds back to the treasury. If a committee member does not feel they can continue with their duties at any time, they must continue to carry out their duties until a suitable replacement is found according to the impeachment and replacement mechanisms defined in the document.

### Administration, Costs, and Reporting

#### Withdrawal, Milestones and KPIs

Two withdrawals will occur, each for half of the amount of the total budget. The first withdrawal will take place as soon as the possible after the passage of this budget info action. The second withdrawal can be created as soon as 5 months after the initial withdrawal and completion of the first two milestones. Each withdrawal will be for half of the amount of the budget (25 million ADA for each withdrawal).

##### Milestone 1 - Formation of Legal Entity

A legal entity will be formed to house the liquidity funds. The first preference will be to establish a non-profit to provide tax benefits and also permit tax deductible donations to the fund. Members of the administrating committee will be made members of the board to provide additional assurance to the Cardano community by legally binding members of the committee to their duties. If a non-profit is not possible due, a legal entity will be formed in the jurisdiction that provides the best tax codes. For the 2nd withdrawal action, submission of articles of establishment or incorporation must be filed and provided to the community.

##### Milestone 2 - First Monthly Report

No later than 60 days after the initial withdrawal, the administrating committee must generate their first report on the status of the fund, including legal entity status and deployed liquidity. All liquidity, whether as liquidity tokens, stablecoins, or ADA must be held in the administrating committees wallet. This is to ensure that all funds are easy to audit. A key performance indicator (**KPI**) for this initial deployment of liquidity will be normalized revenue, or the percentage of liquidity growth relative to deployed liquidity. Since costs may be high relative to revenue and deployed liquidity, the normalized revenue should be reported both before and after cost considerations with a target of 1% per month growth not accounting for costs.

##### Milestone 3 - Full Liquidity Deployment

6 months after the 2nd withdrawal, all liquidity must be deployed. Deployed is defined as funds are in DeFi protocols.

##### KPI 1 - Slippage Reduction

The primary goal of this proposal is to increase liquidity in the DeFi ecosystem. One measure of the effect of deployed liquidity is slippage. Currently, there is ~$1.92 million liquidity in ADA/USDM and ~$1.38 million liquidity on ADA/USDA. A $50,000 purchase of USDM has a 2.23% slippage (a loss of $1115) and a $50,000 purchase of USDA has a slippage of 3.62% (a loss of $1,809). $50,000 is used because it is the current average daily volume over the last 90 days across all DEXs. With this in mind, the KPI for slippage will be to reduce slippage to 1% for a $50,000 buy which will require an addition of {TODO: INSERT LIQUIDITY VALUE HERE} liquidity to DEX protocols.

##### KPI 2 - Revenue

The second KPI focuses on ensuring the fund can operate in perpetuity through generation of revenue. For this KPI, the target will be montly revenue equal to 0.1% of the total deployed liquidity at the end fo the 12 month budget period. The 0.1% is used because 0.1% of 50,000,000 ADA is 50,000 ADA which is more than sufficient to cover committee stipends and any nominal costs associated with operating the funds (i.e. DeFi fees). About 10,000 ADA will be generated from the deployed liquidity (assuming 50,000 ADA per day) assuming volume does not increase with TVL. This combined with revenue from lending protocols will require increases in DEX volume and lending volume utilization in order to hit this target.

#### Costs

For the duration of the budget, at most $50k/month can be used to pay expenses including committee stipends. After the budget period, costs may not exceed monthly revenue (including committee stipend).

For the 12 month budget period:
* $50,000 total costs
  * $7,000/month for committee stipends
  * $1,000/month for audits and transparency as needed (may include building of a dashboard)
  * Remaining costs cannot exceed $42,000 for legal costs and KYB/KYC

All costs must be included in the monthly report.

### GOVERNANCE Protocol

At the time of submission of the budget, the following properly represents the GOVERNANCE protocol. However, this may be modified by future on chain governance Info Actions that pass according to the rules of the Cardano Constitution. This is presented here for informational purposes, and the current version can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/theeldermillenial/2025-liquidity-budget/blob/master/GOVERNANCE.md). The GitHub link is not intended to an immutable link, rather a reference for the intended location of the current version of the GOVERNANCE protocol. However, this can be modified and any Info Action modifying the protocol MUST include an immutable link to the modified protocol in the Info Action. The protocol defined here is located at [this immutable link](TODO: ADD THIS)

#### Immutable Responsibilities

This section MAY NOT be modified by any future Info Actions, and any Info Action that attempts to modify the GOVERNANCE protocol that does not contain this section as it is stated will be considered invalid.

The administrating committee MUST follow ALL terms of this protocol. First and foremost, if an Info Action that aims to modify this protocol passes according to the criteria of Info Actions in the Cardano Constitution, the administrating committee MUST adopt all terms of the new protocol unless the Immutable Responsibilities section has been modified in any form. Changes to the protocol MAY include anything up to and including closure of the fund and/or changing the persons on the committee.

The committee MUST reject new protocols (even if they pass Info Action vote) if:
* It does not contain this section exactly as worded here
* An immutable link to the modified protocol is not included in the Info Action
* Changes would necessarily result in immediate loss of funds - for example if 4 of the committee members were requested for immediate removal without any replacements causing funds to be locked in the multi-signature wallet

Outside of these provisions, committee members MUST adopt any new protocol that passes an on chain Info Action vote.

#### Committee Composition

The committee MUST be composed of 7 members participating in a multisig (4 of 7) wallet. 4 members of the committee MUST be community members unaffiliated with founding entities, where affiliation with a founding entity is defined as having been employed by a founding entity within in the last 4 years. At most, each founding entity may have 1 committee seat. Founding entities are defined as Emurgo, Cardano Foundation, and Input Output Global.

#### Term Limits

Community members have a maximum term limit of 2 years, after which they can re-apply for a second 2 year term. A minimum of 4 community members (not affiliated with founding entities) must be on the committee at all times.

Founding entities may have at most 1 person each on the committee. There are no term limits for committee members that represent a founding entity, but must still abide by the removal process of an Info Action or a majority vote of the other committee members.

#### Retirement and Impeachment

In the event that a committee member retires or their signing keys are exposed, the remaining members of the committee must create a new multisig address with the same policy (4 of 7) that removes the retired address. This process also gives the committee the capacity to impeach inactive members of the committee, as well as the ability for the community to impeach one or more members through an info action.

#### Election

New committee members are elected by an Info Action. More than one person can be elected in an Info Action. The Info Action must include the name of the members to add and the name of the members to be removed from the committee. Committee members MUST serve until a replacement is found at the end of their term.

#### Community Feedback

The administrating committee members should make themselves available to feedback and questions from the Cardano community, and make attempts to make changes that incorporate reasonable feedback from the community provided the do not violate the tenants of this GOVERNANCE protocol. Feedback can be received through a Telegram channel, on Twitter, and scheduled town hall meetings. The administrating committee should make attempts to incorporate feedback from the Cardano community, but are not obligated to do so. If the administrating committee does not respond or refuses to incorporate changes, the Cardano community may submit an on chain Info Action to modify this protocol to compel the committee to take an action.

#### Fund Composition

The goal of this budget is to increase fiat backed stablecoins. To briefly define terms:

* **Fiat back, Cardano native stablecoins** - Fiat backed Cardano native stablecoins are Cardano native stablecoins directly backed by treasury bills, money markets, etc.
* **Non-fiat backed, Cardano native stablecoins** - Cardano native stablecoins that are designed be pegged to USD but are not directly backed by fiat (i.e. CDP, algorithmic, etc)
* **Bridged stablecoins** - Stablecoins that represent a bridged asset.

With these definitions in mind, the liquidity fund should be composed as follows:
* ADA must make up 30% or less of deployed liquidity - this is intended to be paired with tokens on DEXs
* Non-fiat backed Cardano native stablecoins must make up 10% or less of deployed stablecoin liquidity
* Remainder of deployed liquidity must be fiat backed stablecoins

#### Reporting

The administrating committee MUST release a status report at least once each calendar month. Reports must include at a minimum total liquidity held by the administrating committee wallet, amount of deployed liquidity, amounts deployed to each protocol, total revenue generated, total sent to Cardano treasury, and itemized costs.

#### Stipend

The committee shall be paid $1000/month for work performed managing funds. Any committee member may choose to forego part or all of the stipend, and payments to each member should be documented in the monthly report. If the total revenue is less than the amount required to pay committee members, then committee members will receive at most the total value of fee revenue split between committee members. The committee MAY NOT withdrawal funds above what has been generated by fees to pay stipends, meaning the committee MAY NOT withdraw funds that would cause a loss in capitalized value to pay stipends.

#### Costs

For the budget period ending no later than August 2026, costs will be paid from initial funds withdrawn from the treasury. At the conclusion of the budget period, the fund is expected to be self sustaining and the montly budget is dependent on monthly revenue. If there are costs associated with maintaining the liquidity, these must be paid before paying committee members and may not exceed the total revenue generated for the month.

#### Treasury Revenue

The monthly report MUST indicate total revenue and costs. 15% of the total revenue minus costs must be sent back to the treasury and indicated in the monthly report. The other 85% should be capitalized.

### People

This and subsequent sections are not a part of the GOVERNANCE protocol, but members of the committee may be named in future protocols if desired.

Below are 6 of the 7 members of the initial administrating committee. They range in experience and background to help ensure the long term success and sustainability of the stablecoin liquidity. There is an ongoing search for a 7th member of the committee and will be included in the withdrawal action. All members listed below have committed to being on the committee and will abide by the rules of the GOVERNANCE proposal.

1. Linda Roland (aka CryptoFly)
    * Twitter - @cryptofly777
    * YouTube - https://www.youtube.com/@lindacryptofly9182
    * About - Linda Roland is the operator of MALU Pool and has been actively contributing to the Cardano ecosystem since 2021. She’s a trusted DeFi consultant and advisor to multiple Cardano projects, known for her strategic insight and practical, user-focused thinking. Linda also creates educational videos to better inform the community of Cardano events, and improve visibility of Cardano projects. Her background is in industrial engineering and management with expertise in robotics, optimization, and supply chain logistics. She brings a strong mix of technical literacy, real-world experience, and genuine care for the people who make up Cardano.
2. Darren Camas (IPOR Labs)
    * Twitter - @DarrenCamas
    * LinkedIn - https://www.linkedin.com/in/dcamas/
    * About - Darren Camas has been involved with crypto & blockchain since 2011 advising, building, and investing in multiple projects. Currently he is CEO of IPOR Labs. He is also Co-founder of FoolFarm, the first AI venture builder in Europe.
Previously he served as an advisor for the Cardano (ADA) blockchain, headed bizdev for one of the first global crypto exchanges, and has been recognized for his FinTech startups by institutions such as SWIFT and BBVA. On the institutional investor side he served as advisor to Emurgo, the venture arm of Cardano, and is an angel investor in blockchain startups. Originally from the US, he spends most of his time in emerging markets in Asia and Latin America.
3. Nick Schaub, Ph.D. (aka Elder Millenial)
    * Twitter - @ElderM
    * Discord - @theeldermillenial
    * LinkedIn - https://www.linkedin.com/in/nicholas-schaub-99876a67/
    * Google Scholar - https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=g8a__bIAAAAJ&hl
    * About - Dr. Nick Schaub is the founder of SteelSwap under the pseudonym "Elder Millenial". He joined the Cardano community 4 years ago, and has been developing on Cardano for two years. He currently works with multiple DeFi protocols to perform analysis, optimization, and general advice on protocol owned liquidity management and development. His Ph.D. is in biomedical engineering, and he researches the use of artificial intelligence for medicine and biology from the design of novel architectures to development of agent swarms.
4. Giorgio Zinetti (Cardano Foundation)
    * Twitter – @giozzi
    * LinkedIn – https://www.linkedin.com/in/giorgio-zinetti
    * About – Giorgio Zinetti is the Chief Technology Officer at the Cardano Foundation, where he leads the organization's technical strategy and product development, leveraging open-source innovation to shape the future of enterprise blockchain solutions. A Web3 native and passionate advocate for decentralized finance (DeFi), Giorgio has been immersed in the blockchain space since 2015. His expertise spans the development and implementation of decentralized applications, smart contracts, and scalable blockchain infrastructures. Prior to his role at the Cardano Foundation, he co-founded and served as CTO of Procivis AG, a company pioneering digital identity solutions, and spent four years as a software engineer at UBS. Giorgio holds an MSc in Computer Science from Politecnico di Milano. Fluent in Italian, English, Spanish, and German, he combines technical acumen with strategic leadership to drive innovation in the blockchain ecosystem.
5. Massimo Morini, Ph.D.
    * Twitter – @TheAntinomist
    * LinkedIn – https://www.linkedin.com/in/massimo-morini-37a3246
    * About – Massimo Morini is a leading expert in blockchain economics and decentralized finance (DeFi), with a career spanning both traditional finance and the crypto industry. He has held prominent roles, including Chief Economist at the Algorand Foundation and Head of Interest Rates & Credit Models at Intesa Sanpaolo. Morini also served as a Senior Advisor to the World Bank and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. In academia, he is a professor at institutions such as the Università della Svizzera italiana (USI) in Lugano, Bocconi University, and the Polytechnic University of Milan, where he teaches courses on blockchain technologies, cryptocurrencies, and decentralized finance.
6. Darlington Wleh
    * Twitter - @LidoNation
    * LinkedIn - https://www.linkedin.com/in/profd2004/
    * About - Co-dreamer at Lido Nation — the Cardano-native team behind CatalystExplorer.com, 1694.io, and LidoNation.com. I’m an engineer by day, and at all times a dancer, humanitarian, idealist, and entrepreneur. With a strong foundation in cloud technologies, programming, and blockchain, I’m passionate about building tools and communities that make decentralized futures more accessible — and a little more fun.

## Rationale

### Constitutionality of the Budget

**Purpose**: This proposal is for work intended to enhance the long term sustainability of Cardano by increasing stablecoin liquidity in the ecosystem.

**Article III(5)**: This proposal fulfills this section of the Cardano Constitution by containing a Title, Abstract, Reason for Proposal (Motivation and Rationale), and Supporting Materials. An off-chain copy of this proposal can be found at https://raw.githubusercontent.com/theeldermillenial/2025-liquidity-budget/refs/heads/master/info.jsonld, and the document hash is attached to the transaction to fulfill the other requirements of this section. An easy to read version can be found at https://raw.githubusercontent.com/theeldermillenial/2025-liquidity-budget/refs/heads/master/README.md

**Article IV(1)**: We propose that this budget span 73 epochs (roughly 1 calendar year).

**Article IV(2)**: Disbursements for this budget must be made to a multi-signature (multisig) wallet composed of at least seven independent administrating members with at 4 of 7 signing policy. The process of overseeing funds then requires 4 of the 7 independent administrating members agree to disbursement of funds to DeFi protocols. The wallet must be the owner of any liquidity deposited into DeFi protocols, meaning liquidity tokens or any other assurance of liquidity must be held in the multisig wallet and should not be delegated to a third party, except as required for conversion of assets to fiat or minting of stablecoins. With this design, the committee will be the administrator of the budget funds and will directly oversee distribution of funds to protocols.

**Article IV(3)**: The proposed 50 million ADA will not cause the total approved sum of budgets to exceed the currently approved NCL.

**Article IV(4)**: We budget $1,000/month ($12,000 ADA total) to cover the costs of audits and transparency. The building of a dashboard and quarterly reporting in the proposed work also fulfill the obligations of this section. Since all funds will be managed from a single account, including all liquidity holdings and disbursement of monthly stipends for administrating committee members, we believe the dashboard and monthly reports are sufficient for auditing. To further strengthen our commitment to the auditing requirement, we also commit to any community driven requests for independent audits via an Info Action, and will use funds up to the $50,000/month budget to work with an independent auditor.

**Article IV(5)**: The nature of the proposed work fulfills the first requirement of Article IV(5) of the constitution. The holding of all assets in the multisig account composed of 7 independent signers improves the ability of the Cardano community to easily audit and track actions taken by the committee. To fulfill the second part of the section, funds will not be delegated to an SPO and will be delegated to the predefined auto-abstain voting option.

**TREASURY-04a**: There is no on chain withdrawal action for this budget, and one will not be submitted unless this budget achieves the necessary on chain approval. Once approved, two separate withdrawals will be created at least 5 months apart according to the method indicated in the above proposal.
